So if we're taking a look at
the code that we have right now,
you'll notice that if you checked out the
09-beginbranch you'll notice there's a new
project in here called cest-la-vue.
And so for
those not familiar with the French,
cest la vie just mean that it's life.
This is life and so this is view.
And so inside of here, we actually
do have a little bit happening here.
So I do want to walk through this with
you because I will try to sort of
to centralize the exercises around
cest-la-vue in order to just provide some
context.
And basically give you the experience of
walking into a project that either has
already had some call it legacy code and
that way you feel like
you're working with stuff.
But that said I wanna emphasize if you
feel more comfortable just working with
your TV show form app to apply these
concepts, please feel free to do so.
I just wanted to provide different
contexts to allow you that practice of
seeing what it's like when
working with code bases.
So let's go and switch over in
here real quick into cest-la-vue.
And let's go ahead and
run that, npm run dev, great.
Now if we open up here, It's on 74 now.
That's right cuz the other ones running,
make sense.
Okay, here we go.
We have cest la vue.
It's a fairly simple app, but it has
a little bit of styling this time, so
not just raw html and
whatever the browser provides.
And we have a home and login page,
or at least what appears to be.
If we take a look at our app.view, you'll
notice that there are two components that
are already pre-built for you,
there's a homepage and a login page.
If you look inside the package.json,
you'll see there's still
no router library.
So there's no paths being changed or
anything right now.
What we're doing here is that traditional
single page application model, which is
like every JavaScript trying to manage
everything, and so it's just routed there.
And so what's actually happening here
is you have this reactive data that's
tracking the state of
the current page quote, unquote.
And so here we have two methods that
assign the current page to home or login.
And then down here,
we have the ability to say, okay, well,
if the current page is home,
show this component or
if the current page is login or
actually in this case, it's an else.
But as you can see, that's your basic
check to see what we're swapping between.
Now here's the cool thing.
This right here is great but
you can imagine if that list gets long,
and again, for routing, eventually we're
gonna get into the library that will
also teach you how to switch routes.
But if you have a list of components that
you might need to swap in and out and
make it dynamic,
it's kind of hard to have that all managed
out inside of your templates, right.
Either the conditionals we had complicate
it, how would that actually work?
So when it comes to dynamically swapping
out components, Vue has a native component
aptly called component, because what
you're doing is, you're basically defining
a generic component that JavaScript
will basically help to define.
So in the case of our app, for example,
what we do is we pass it a prop called is,
and this is a specially designed prop for
the native component.
And so if we just do it manually
ourselves, we can say, basically,
we can say, we're going to the homepage.
And so in this particular case, you'll
notice that home is basically being bound
to just a plain string and
there's nothing special going on.
And so if we think about it,
this is really no different than
just declaring your homepage directly as
a component, rendering out on the screen.
But what we'd like to do is actually
make it something that is managed if via
JavaScript.
And so what we could do in this particular
case is we can say, you know what,
let's do this,
let's create a computed property.
And we'll call it, and this time,
this one is called currentPage,
and then we'll say, renderPage.
And the way renderPage work, we'll say is,
actually, yes, this is how it will work.
Return this.currentPage plus whatever, so
basically we're looking at the naming of
the component here,
in this case, it's homepage.
And so we can see now that because,
whoops, let me go back, okay.
We can see now because we're only
basically having the current page defined
via the first part of it,
via home and login,
this means that we can
basically tag it on to page.
And if we save that now, [SOUND] yep,
that's totally fine, and
then bind this to renderPage.
That's good, there you go.
That's swapping in and out now.
And so what's really cool about this now
is that you basically get the ability to
do some pretty complex logic things.
And then more importantly, you can
actually start then when it comes to
really making your application dynamic and
having the backend define maybe
which components your users prefer,
because you're managing a CMS site
that might render out certain widgets.
You might actually then do
a loop through your Vue4.
There's a bunch of things that you end
up being able to do with this, but
it's something I just wanted to expose
to you all because as we go through this
concept is actually gonna show up again
as we go through things like routing.